[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: One of our
special guests back with us
on "Beyond Belief," Brooks
Agnew, a true explorer--
he's the author of 10 books on
the mysteries of the universe.
He has been the host of
the "X-Squared Radio"
show for 15 years, where he has
been discussing these topics
with a global audience.
He's also been
featured as a scientist
on dozens of documentaries.
Brooks, welcome back
to "Beyond Belief."
>>BROOKS AGNEW:
Thank you, George.
Good to be here.
>>NOORY: You are always
doing something special.
You don't stop, do you?
>>AGNEW: That's
what life is about.
You've got to do great things.
>>NOORY: My god, you've
done the Hollow Earth.
You're working on that project.
You're working on
so many others.
Now, you've got a mission
of getting us back
to the Moon and Mars.
What's going on?
>>AGNEW: Well, I've
been interested in it
since I was a little kid.
In 1968, I was interviewed
by a newspaper in Southern
California, where I lived.
And they asked me what I
wanted to be when I grew up.
And I didn't hesitate.
I said I wanted to
be an asteroid miner.
Well, what does an
interviewer do with that?
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>AGNEW: So the idea
that we're going
to go beyond the
atmosphere to the Moon,
It seems like a
desert in a vacuum.
Why are we going to go there?
I still have people
ask me that today.
Why would we go there when you
have so many problems here?
And the benefits of going to
the Moon are just off the chain,
especially now with
our capabilities.
>>NOORY: Sure.
We last went there with
a manned mission in 1972.
Why'd we stop?
>>AGNEW: We had actually two
more launch engines all paid
for--
>>NOORY: Ready to
go, ready to go--
>>AGNEW: With primary
and secondary crews.
And we decided not to go back.
>>NOORY: Why?
>>AGNEW: Because of NASA.
NASA is an administration.
It is a bureaucracy.
And it is therefore driven by
the politics of Washington, DC.
Once space travel became blasé,
if you can imagine that--
>>NOORY: People lost interest.
>>AGNEW: They lost interest.
The politicians wanted
to move money elsewhere.
And they really didn't see any
benefits of continuously coming
home with a bunch of rocks.
So they just went
another direction.
>>NOORY: Are we going to
get back there, Brooks?
>>AGNEW: Well, that's
a good question.
In the past, we have
relied upon governments.
Governments raise taxes.
They put the taxes
toward the programs.
Bureaucrats siphon
off the money.
And about 10 times over
budget, we finally get there.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>AGNEW: Now, it's a
little bit different.
Now, we see the return on
investment is very, very high.
With SpaceX--
>>NOORY: Privatization.
>>AGNEW: This is
a private company
that is getting in
the space business.
And they're making money.
They're making about $4 to
$12 million profit per launch.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>AGNEW: This has created--
well, it has validated
a new business model.
>>NOORY: And they're
going up cheaper
than when NASA was doing it.
>>AGNEW: Oh, absolutely,
because there's no bureaucracy.
One of the recent
decisions that they made,
which was just brilliant,
they did all this testing
on different kinds of carbon
fiber and special polymers
to build a hull.
And they found that,
yes, it was lighter.
But it was more expensive.
It was a long time building.
So they went back to stainless
steel, a stainless steel star
hopper.
You could never do
that in the government.
That would just never happen.
The one thing about the
government you can rely on
is it is a five-year-long
supertanker.
And once it begins
moving through the water,
it can't turn.
>>NOORY: Now, you're
stuck with it.
>>AGNEW: That's it.
>>NOORY: But we're doing it now.
Privatization I assume
you think is fantastic.
>>AGNEW: Yes.
In fact, I'm meeting with six
asteroid mining companies,
beginning next month.
I'm going to be looking at their
technology, their capabilities,
their goals.
Some of them are
duplicating, not many.
There have already been mergers.
Some of these got started
up with blockchain.
And they've now come
out of the blockchain
and gone into real dollars.
And they're building
serious hardware--
Bigelow, Google, companies
that we recognize,
but also some we don't.
And they're building
life support systems.
They're building
docking systems.
They're building mainframes.
And the biggest innovations
are in propulsion.
>>NOORY: That's
dramatic, isn't it?
>>AGNEW: It is.
>>NOORY: And reentry rockets.
>>AGNEW: Well,
we're not thinking--
yeah, returnable rockets.
And that's brilliant.
Anybody's that's
watched the videos--
>>NOORY: That saves
a lot of money.
>>AGNEW: It does.
It does.
It's incredible.
You could turn them around
in a couple of weeks
and right back up again.
>>NOORY: Your quest to
want us to, one, go back
to the Moon would be
what, for mining purposes?
>>AGNEW: Yes, and for new
energy, because the Moon has
in great supply several things.
First of all, it has a
lot of volatile compounds
that are difficult
to produce here.
We have to produce
them with oil.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>AGNEW: We have to refine
them and crack them,
and it's polluting.
But they exist in the lower
areas of craters on the Moon
because it's dark and it's cold.
And they exist in liquid
form or even solid form.
And those volatile compounds
can be recovered and used
for further space exploration.
And helium-3--
>>NOORY: What is
helium-3, Brooks?
>>AGNEW: Helium-3 is
a compound of helium
that's light a neutron.
And it exists on Earth,
but in small amounts.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>AGNEW: Most of the helium
we have here is helium-4.
To get helium-3, you've got
to get it from volcanoes,
because it exists mostly
in the inside of the Earth.
But on the Moon, it's
plentiful everywhere.
And what it could
basically be used for
is to replace fissile materials,
like uranium and cesium,
in our nuclear power plants
to generate electricity,
except no more radiation.
>>NOORY: That's huge.
>>AGNEW: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: You don't have to worry
about a Fukushima disaster.
>>AGNEW: Correct.
And if you bring a shipping
container of helium-3 back
and convert the nuclear
power plant, instead of
a three-year fuel supply, you
have a 30-year fuel supply.
>>NOORY: Will it be NASA that
gets us back to the Moon?
>>AGNEW: Absolutely not.
>>NOORY: You don't think so?
>>AGNEW: No.
I don't think any one
government can handle it now,
because we realize when
we did go to the Moon,
we were really lucky.
The magnetosphere
behaved itself.
The solar flares
behaved themselves.
We didn't lose anybody.
All the astronauts lived
to be ripe old ages.
Now, it's a little
bit different.
Our atmosphere is different.
The magnetosphere is different.
We don't want to lose anybody,
because it's valuable.
What we want to do is
bring the money home.
>>NOORY: Back in 2019,
Brooks, the "PBS NewsHour"
ran a piece on NASA
attempting to want to get back
to the Moon in 2024.
>> One year into his tenure
as NASA administrator,
Jim Bridenstine is a man on
a new mission for the space
agency.
>> Please join me in
welcoming Jim Bridenstine.
>> It made him a star at
the 35th Space Symposium
in Colorado Springs, the
annual convening of the cosmic
cognoscenti.
>> So many in this room are
familiar that we've been given
now a new charge, that we
are going to place humans
on the surface of the
Moon in five years.
For a number of
years at NASA, they
weren't really allowed to
talk about going to the Moon.
And now, they not only can
The idea that we're going
to be there in five years
has everybody extremely excited.
>> US astronauts on
the moon by 2024--
Vice President Mike Pence
dropped that gauntlet
at the end of March.
>> Now, make no
mistake about it.
We're in a space race today,
just as we were in the 1960s.
And the stakes are even higher.
>> A space race with whom?
A private mission designed
by Elon Musk and SpaceX
or also China, which landed
on the far side of the Moon
in January and vows to build
a permanent encampment there
in a decade?
It's a time frame that invokes
another race, another era.
>>NOORY: It's funny, Brooks.
They act like we never
went to the Moon.
>>AGNEW: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It's like
it's all over.
It's starting all
over again, isn't it?
>>NOORY: Well, I
kind of benefited
from the first whole Moon
venture because when it ended,
NASA dissolved
the greatest brain
trust the world had ever built.
>>NOORY: Some of
them went to SpaceX
and all these other companies.
>>AGNEW: And some of them
came to universities.
I took industrial technology
from a former NASA engineer.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>AGNEW: So all the universities
benefited from that, as well.
But the overall world suffered.
The space race they talk about
today really has three lanes.
It has an economic lane, which
SpaceX and other companies--
>>NOORY: That's what
they smell, right?
>>AGNEW: Yeah, sure.
A single asteroid,
a single haul,
could be worth $300
to $400 billion.
This is a great payday.
The second is governmental.
Obviously, the high
ground is what you
want in any military situation.
And I've said for a long,
long time, maybe four
decades, he who drills the
Moon will control the Earth.
But the third one
is kind of it taps
into the nature of
humanity itself.
Are we explorers,
or are we warriors?
And the answer is
we're explorers.
Every time Earth has had a
frontier, man has done well.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>AGNEW: Man has explored into
those frontiers, developed
those frontiers.
Those colonies broke off
from the main government that
was running the
world at the time,
and the entire world benefited.
We are out of frontiers
on this world.
The only frontier left
is the bottom of the sea.
And we're not fighting
wars over that.
We're not moving people to
the bottom of the ocean.
That frontier is two
days away, two days away.
And there are billions of
dollars hanging in the balance.
I don't think any one
government can make it,
but they're going to try.
Not only China,
not only Russia--
we recently had an
unsuccessful launch from India.
Everything went well.
They did things step by step.
They went into orbit
around the Earth.
They went from
Earth to the Moon,
went to orbit around
the Moon, and then they
splatted on the surface.
>>NOORY: Right.
Trial and error.
They'll get it, eventually.
>>AGNEW: Well, we
want less error.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>AGNEW: We want more
return on investment.
>>NOORY: Should we be working as
a joint effort with the planet,
as opposed to these individual
companies or countries?
>>AGNEW: Well, this is
the dynamic of humanity.
If you look at it
from that standpoint,
we are on the threshold
of an era of perhaps 1,000
years of peace, if we
come together as Earth
and quit marching at one
another with our tribal flags
about what resources
we have here.
Let's turn our sights to the
stars or at least to the Moon,
to Mars, and maybe
the asteroid belt.
And that's enough
frontier for 1,000 years.
>>NOORY: Is there enough
money on this planet
to do these things?
>>AGNEW: Yes, there is, because
of the return on investment.
A single asteroid,
which we have identified
and we already have nomenclature
for, is almost solid platinum.
>>NOORY: Now, what do we
do with it, this asteroid?
Do we land on it?
What happens to it?
>>AGNEW: There are three
methods of mining asteroids.
One is called a
"surface gathering."
A lot of these
asteroids have clumps
of debris on the surface.
We've developed a spacecraft
which is called the Dragonfly.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>AGNEW: It lands
on the surface,
and it basically scoops up the
loose debris and then leaves.
>>NOORY: How much
debris does it take?
Tons?
>>AGNEW: Yes, tons.
But in space, tons
doesn't mean anything.
>>NOORY: True.
>>AGNEW: If you're going
to bring it back to Earth,
then you have reentry issues.
But if you're going
to take it to the Moon
or you're going to put it
in orbit around the Moon
or you're going to take
it to Mars, a totally
different repayment dynamic,
because now what you've created
are way stations for raw
materials-- for fuel,
for water, for oxygen,
for propellant.
All of these things
are now on the way
being built, just like
any frontier is explored.
>>NOORY: What do
they call the space
between Earth and the Moon?
And why is that so important?
>>AGNEW: Well, we use
the word "cislunar."
>>NOORY: "Cislunar."
>>AGNEW: "Cislunar" because
it is two days away,
but there are some
hazards along the way.
There's the magnetosphere.
There's solar radiation.
We're thinking, as you
saw in that PBS special,
about landing on the surface.
That's generally a bad idea.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>AGNEW: On a good day, things
are hazardous on the Moon.
>>NOORY: On a good day.
>>AGNEW: Yeah.
When the Sun's having a bad
day, the surface of the Moon
is a very bad place to be.
>>NOORY: You don't
want to be there.
>>AGNEW: No.
But we have identified what
are called "volcanic vents."
These volcanic vents
are long since inactive,
but they're handy because they
have about a 100-meter opening.
And they go into the
planet about 15 kilometers.
We can send 3D printers
up there, take lunar soil,
seal up the opening with
about a 100-mile-thick wall,
and then go through the wall
and develop the environment
on the inside of the Moon.
Now, you're shielded
from solar radiation.
You can stabilize
the atmosphere.
>>NOORY: You can live there.
>>AGNEW: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Should we live there?
>>AGNEW: Yes, I think we should.
We could take it.
>>NOORY: We could have
been there by now, right?
>>AGNEW: Yeah, we could have.
>>NOORY: Over all these years?
Wouldn't that be boring,
Brooks, for somebody?
How long would you want to
stay on the Moon, personally?
>>AGNEW: I don't know.
I could do it for a lifetime.
>>NOORY: Could you really?
>>AGNEW: Sure, because
there's so much to do.
>>NOORY: I'd go nuts.
>>AGNEW: There's a
lot to do here, too.
But there, everything you
do is new, everything.
>>NOORY: See, I
couldn't even go up
in the International
Space Station
for more than a couple days.
>>AGNEW: Yeah, that's
pretty weightless.
I don't like being weightless.
It's nauseating.
But 1/6 gravity,
I can handle that.
Look at the volcanic vents we've
explored here on the Earth.
They're amazing.
They're huge.
They're bigger than this
room and long as a mile.
And they could
easily be terraformed
on the inside as a habitat.
>>NOORY: What is it about
exploring that just gets you?
>>AGNEW: Wow, that's a
really great question.
Never had that question before.
I don't know.
It's like almost
something genetic in me.
>>NOORY: You're like the
modern-day Marco Polo.
>>AGNEW: Sort of.
Capitalism is that way.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>AGNEW: Capitalism is
a system of service,
where one person will see
a need another person has,
whether it's a house or
a road or health care.
And this person develops that
service to meet that need
and gets paid for it.
That's capitalism.
And the people that do
it best get paid well.
And there's always competition,
and everything grows.
This system is save the world.
What happens,
though, like NASA, is
you have companies
that will end up
using government agencies
to prevent other companies
from competing with them.
And that turns
into more fascism.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>AGNEW: That's more
dangerous kind of capitalism.
I think that's what we're
facing around the world.
We're also seeing the world kind
of revolt against that right
now.
>>NOORY: What's going on,
Brooks, with the Russians?
Other than having the
ability to launch us--
they're taking us to
the ISS, for example--
they're not doing anything.
Why not?
>>AGNEW: Without being
insulting, Russia's too small.
Their economy's too small.
>>NOORY: They can't afford it?
>>AGNEW: They can't afford it.
They're very smart.
Everyone knows in Europe,
the very best technologies
in Europe come from Russia.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>AGNEW: I'm going there in
June to spend three weeks.
We're going to do a dry run for
the Hollow Earth Expedition.
But I could tell you
right now, they're
amazingly productive people.
And they just realize it's too
big of a challenge for them.
>>NOORY: Alone.
>>AGNEW: Yes.
They have to partner with
someone in order to do it.
>>NOORY: Will they
partner with the Chinese?
>>AGNEW: Chinese are
a different story.
The Chinese have an issue.
You have China, and
you have the Chinese.
China thinks it's
doing just fine.
The Chinese do not.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>AGNEW: Sooner or later,
that's going to resolve itself.
But we're seeing a little bit
of that in the political world.
>>NOORY: Let's
take a look at NASA
and their plans for
their Moon mission.
>> 50 years ago, we
pioneered a path to the Moon.
The trail we blazed cut
through the fictions of science
and showed us all
what was possible.
>> It's very pretty out here.
>> Today, our calling to
explore is even greater.
To go farther, we must be able
to sustain missions of greater
distance and duration.
We must use the resources
we find at our destinations.
We must overcome radiation,
isolation, gravity, and extreme
environments like never before.
These are the challenges we face
to push the bounds of humanity.
We're going to the Moon to
stay by 2024, and this is how.
>> This all starts with
the ability to get larger,
heavier payloads off-planet
and beyond Earth's gravity.
>> For this, we design
an entirely new rocket.
>> The Space Launch System,
SLS, will be the most powerful
rocket ever developed.
>> And with components
in production--
>> And more in testing--
>> The system is capable
of being the catalyst
for deep-space missions.
>> We need a capsule that can
support humans from launch--
>> Through deep space and
return safely back to Earth.
>> For this, we've built Orion.
>> This is NASA's
next-generation human space
capsule.
>> Using data from lunar
orbiters that continue
to reveal the Moon's
hazards and resources--
>> We're currently developing
an entirely new approach
to landing and
operating on the Moon.
>> Using our commercial partners
to deliver science instruments
and robotics to the surface,
we're paving the way for human
missions in 2024.
>> Our charge is to
go quickly and stay,
to press our collective efforts
forward with a fervor that will
see us return to the Moon in a
manner that is wholly different
than 50 years ago.
>>NOORY: Now, looking
at that clip, Brooks,
you would assume NASA's going
to get us back there again.
>>AGNEW: That's a great
sales job, isn't it?
Great logo, great
music, great production,
but it's largely empty--
>>NOORY: It's not
going to happen--
>>AGNEW: Because NASA doesn't
have the budget to do it.
NASA doesn't actually do
anything that makes money.
They're an administration.
>>NOORY: They spend money.
>>AGNEW: Well,
they shuffle money.
JPL makes stuff.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>AGNEW: They actually
build the stuff.
My friends at Hughes Satellite,
they actually make stuff.
What we've been doing now
is launching cubesats.
These are little
satellites about the size
of a lunchbox or
a beer cooler that
have capabilities of cell phone
technology or GPS technology
or weather management or
other kinds of surveillance.
That makes money.
NASA doesn't make money.
NASA's been largely
the impediment
of the private industry
actually getting going.
They make great
promotional films,
but NASA's not the ones that
are going to get us to the Moon.
As I said, be on the
surface of the Moon,
not a really great idea.
It's only a matter
of time before that
has a disastrous outcome.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>AGNEW: And I also said that
we're going to make innovations
in propulsion.
It takes more energy to get from
the surface of the Earth out
of orbit than the entire
rest of the mission combined.
>>NOORY: Right.
Once you're in orbit,
it's easy, right?
>>AGNEW: Or out of orbit.
Once you're floating
in space, then it's
pretty easy to move around.
So the idea that these private
companies are coming up with--
let's move the
capability to space,
and then let's build in space.
Let's build things in
the vacuum of space
or on the surface of the Moon--
much, much lower operating
cost from there on.
The issue is that
you begin to cross
into the line of vulnerability
for Earth itself.
And that was what
was so important
about this new defense
department that has been
developed by President Trump.
I'll just put this hat
on just for a second.
>>NOORY: The Space Force.
>>AGNEW: The Space
Force makes it possible
because if these private
industries invest
all this money to go to
the Moon and mine helium-3
and to generate oxygen and water
and all kinds of raw materials
to build bigger space
machines, they've
got to have somebody
to protect them.
>>NOORY: Just in case.
>>AGNEW: And that's
what Space Force is for.
>>NOORY: Protect them from whom?
>>AGNEW: Well, there
are three threats.
One, of course, is from other
nations here on the Earth.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>AGNEW: ICBMs
going up into orbit
and smashing into
some country, we
could stop that pretty easily.
If we had an extraterrestrial
threat-- and I
don't mean aliens coming
in with an armada.
>>NOORY: But that could be, too.
Who knows?
>>AGNEW: Yeah.
More likely is a
comet or an asteroid
or a meteor that comes out of
the Oort belt or the Kuiper
belt and is headed for Earth.
It would take us months to
mobilize something from Earth
to be able to take that out.
If we were already
on the Moon, we
could see it almost as soon
as it begins moving out there.
And we would have
the resources--
low-energy requirements-- to
go attach ourselves to it.
There are a couple ways
to move it out of the way.
One is to park the
spacecraft a little ways away
and just use the gravitational
pull to pull it away.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>AGNEW: The other is to
stick a couple rockets on it,
light it up, and push
it out of its path.
And the other's
to blow to pieces.
The latter is not
very desirable,
because then you create
an unpredictable cloud
of high-velocity particles
you have to deal with.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>AGNEW: It's best just
to push it out of the way
or push it into the Sun.
>>NOORY: And it's happening.
>>AGNEW: It's happening.
>>NOORY: Budgets have been
approved and everything else.
>>AGNEW: Budgets
have been approved,
and it's a small organization.
It's not a bureaucracy yet.
It's not a NASA.
It doesn't have layers
and layers and layers
of people that are trying to
make a career for themselves.
This is specifically
built to protect America
from threats that come to
or go into and out of space.
>>NOORY: Which I agree,
we need to do that.
>>AGNEW: Yes.
>>NOORY: Once we get back to
the Moon, are we going to Mars?
>>AGNEW: Yes, that's
the next plan.
And it's interesting that a
lot of science fiction writers
have picked up on this.
And they always pave the
way, always pave the way,
for these kinds of things.
Once we're to the Moon, the next
logical step is to go to Mars.
Right outside of Mars,
between Mars and Jupiter,
is the asteroid belt.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>AGNEW: I don't think
we'll make it much further
than that the next
few hundred years.
We won't need to.
But all the raw materials
that we need to do this
are up there.
>>NOORY: Isn't Mars a
two-year trip right now?
>>AGNEW: Well, if it's at its
closest point, it's about four,
four-and-a-half months with
our current propulsion systems.
In the furthest point of the
orbit, it's about seven months.
That's a long time to be
weightless in space for a human
being.
>>NOORY: Right.
Plus you have to supply
them with food and water.
You can't resupply
them, can you?
>>AGNEW: No, there's
no supply chain.
So we're going to have to
improve on our propulsion
systems.
And that's where the new
ion thrusters are coming in.
They either use a
fuel, like water.
Or they use the Casimir
effect, where they gather ions
from another dimension, charge
them, and accelerate them
out a nozzle.
You can create thrust
that will push a craft,
accelerate slowly,
maybe at 0.1 or 0.2 G's.
But you can accelerate
for a couple weeks
because you don't
need to refuel.
You're just using
sunlight for energy.
And then you can reach
speeds of about 0.3, even 0.4
light speed.
Now, you can cut the trip
to Mars down to a week.
>>NOORY: My god, that's amazing.
Why Mars, Brooks?
>>AGNEW: We're
fascinated with Mars.
Mars has an atmosphere
about 1/100 the density
of our atmosphere here.
We think that Mars at one
time had an atmosphere.
Something catastrophic happened.
It stripped it away.
It's the next logical
place for us to go.
We've actually sent
more missions to Venus
than we have Mars.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>AGNEW: But we believe
that we could eventually
create a habitat on Mars
that would support life.
>>NOORY: Mars captures
our imagination.
For some reason, there's a
love affair we have with Mars.
I don't know why.
Maybe it's because of "War
of the Worlds" or something.
But we love to talk about
the possibilities on Mars,
don't we?
>>AGNEW: Yes, we do.
Yeah.
And Mars is a desert
planet, as far as we know.
All the probes that
we've sent there,
we know the minerals
that are there.
But we also know that there's
no current life form that exists
in large quantity on Mars.
>>NOORY: Should we build a
base on Mars and live there?
>>AGNEW: Eventually, yes.
I think it'll take a couple
hundred years before that
happens.
>>NOORY: That long?
100 years?
>>AGNEW: I think so, because
at the end of the day
or at least now,
all those resources
have to come from here.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>AGNEW: And our bowl only
has so much money in it.
If we start carving
off that money
and shipping it
to another world,
it's not going to be
politically very popular.
There's no return on
investment from Mars to here.
There is a return on investment
from the Moon to here.
from the asteroid belt to here.
But you're going to have
to expand the economy.
And we're going to have to
do something as a planet,
instead of as nations.
>>NOORY: You talked
about 3D printers.
Let's talk about that
in relationship to Mars.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Isn't it exciting?
>>AGNEW: Oh, yes, absolutely.
>>NOORY: Regardless of
what direction we go in.
>>AGNEW: We change the
way we build things here
on this planet by
using concrete pumpers.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>AGNEW: We take
a concrete truck,
dump the liquid
concrete into a hopper,
and it goes up a long pipe.
And it's pumped into
and fills up the forms.
This is basically
what a 3D printer is.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>AGNEW: You're going
to take lunar soil,
mix it with compounds, maybe add
some energy, some heat to it,
and then you're going to go
back and forth, back and forth.
And you're going to layer
out these structures.
>>NOORY: The
technology's amazing.
>>AGNEW: The contest
that you showed here
that was done at a university
was highly innovative,
and it proved a lot of things.
But again, you're talking
about surface structures.
On the Moon, this is a bad idea.
But it can be used
to develop things
inside those volcanic vents.
And once you start
up a 3D printer,
it prints 24 hours a
day, seven days a week.
In a very short amount
of time, a month or two
with no malfunctions, you could
create one heck of a structure.
>>NOORY: And it's clean
and simple, isn't it?
>>AGNEW: It is simple.
>>NOORY: You've talked
about the asteroids.
What's beyond Mars?
The asteroid belt
between Mars and Jupiter?
>>AGNEW: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Is there
something there to mine?
>>AGNEW: Lots.
There are asteroids of platinum,
of rhodium, of ice itself.
And of course, once
you have water,
then you could split it
into hydrogen and oxygen.
Now, you have rocket fuel.
You've got--
>>NOORY: God, great potential.
>>AGNEW: Correct.
You've got the ability
to create environments
without having to have
an umbilical cord back
to the Earth.
>>NOORY: We've got a
little clip on asteroids
and their benefits.
>> Asteroids, also
known as "minor planets"
or "planetoids," are chunks of
space debris in orbit around
the Sun.
They are the material
left over from when
the planets were formed
and range from a few meters
to hundreds of
kilometers in diameter.
Most asteroids are located
in the main asteroid belt
between the orbits
of Mars and Jupiter.
This contains millions of
asteroids, of which 750,000
are more than one kilometer
across, with over 200 exceeding
100 kilometers in diameter.
Asteroids in the
main belt are so
spread out that most are
hundreds of thousands
of kilometers apart.
Located outside the main
belt are three groups
of near-Earth asteroids called
the "Atens," the "Amors,"
and the "Apollos."
These groups contain about 9,000
asteroids, with nearly 1,000
more than one kilometer in size.
Due to their relative
proximity to our planet,
some 1,500 near-Earth
asteroids are prime candidates
for mining operations.
Asteroids are made of
a variety of materials,
with the majority classified
as "C-Type," "S-Type,"
or "M-Type."
"C-Type" or "carbonaceous"
asteroids are the most common
and are thought to consist
of carbon compounds, rock,
up to 20% water,
and some metals.
"S-Type" or "silicaceous"
asteroids are then mostly made
of iron and magnesium silicates,
with smaller quantities
of nickel and iron, as well
as some platinum-group metals.
Finally, "M-Type" or "metallic"
asteroids are mainly composed
of pure nickel and iron,
with smaller platinum-group
deposits.
A single platinum-rich
500-meter-wide asteroid
has been estimated to contain
1.5 times the known world
reserves of
platinum-group metals.
Out in space, the water to
be found on C-Type asteroids
will be just as valuable
as metal deposits,
as water is a critical
commodity, both for sustaining
humans in space and as a source
of oxygen for rocket fuel.
Even basic asteroid rock may
prove a valuable building
material, as it could shield
humans from deadly radiation.
As all of these
examples illustrate,
there are significant
possibilities
to exploit asteroids
as a valuable source
of extraterrestrial resources.
It has indeed already
been calculated
that some individual asteroids
contain raw materials
worth more than $100 billion.
>>NOORY: Brooks, do you
think the asteroid belt was
a planet that blew up
or what could have been
a planet that never formed?
>>AGNEW: I don't
think it's the latter.
I think probably, you're
looking at a planet
that was there in orbit.
It had a catastrophic
collision with something--
>>NOORY: Something happened--
>>AGNEW: Broke into
a bunch of chunks,
and stayed in the same orbit.
>>NOORY: Now, when we talk
about asteroids approaching
the planet or zooming by
Earth, did they all originate
from the asteroid belt?
Or are they coming in from
outside the solar system?
>>AGNEW: No, they come in from
the Kuiper Belt or the Oort
Cloud.
Asteroids do not usually
get out of their behavior
and come zooming through
the solar system.
Meteors do, and comets do.
But asteroids are pretty
good-size gravitational bodies
in and of themselves.
And so they pretty much
stay in that cloud.
Outside of that, there
are millions of bodies
out there, ranging in
size from a lunchbox
to a city block, that can get
bumped or create a collision
or somehow fall out of orbit
and come crossing other orbits.
>>NOORY: If you were given
one project to accomplish--
the budget, everything--
what would that project be?
>>AGNEW: Wow.
Well, I would like
to create probably
a habitat on the Moon
to be able to facilitate
heavy lifting from there.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>AGNEW: Launching
things from the Moon
or from the orbit of the Moon is
way easier than launching them
from the Earth.
>>NOORY: In terms of
gravitational pull
and everything else?
>>AGNEW: Right.
Overcoming the gravitational
pull of the Moon,
having the raw materials,
not putting human life
on the surface at risk every
single time you launch,
every single time you come back.
>>NOORY: Brooks, is
space the final frontier?
>>AGNEW: Maybe.
Other dimensions
maybe beyond that,
but we're meant to be free.
We're meant to be explorers.
We're meant to dream
large and to do
everything we can do to try
to accomplish those dreams.
>>NOORY: Will 2024
show us a Mars mission?
>>AGNEW: Maybe on the paper.
I don't think it's
going to happen by 2024.
>>NOORY: You don't?
>>AGNEW: No, I think
the risk is too high.
>>NOORY: But can we?
Can we do it?
We went there 50 years ago.
>>AGNEW: We have put rovers
on there, and most of them
have been successful beyond
our wildest imagination.
I was talking with Dr. Jim
Bell, who ran the Opportunity
and Spirit rovers on Mars.
And he really didn't
know what to do once they
exceeded their mission life.
They were then given
back to Caltech.
Caltech grad students developed
research projects with them
until their life
expectancy was over.
But it was a magnificently
successful project.
>>NOORY: Beyond anything
they could imagine.
>>AGNEW: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
We have the capability
and the mental know-how
to do these things you've
been talking about.
>>AGNEW: Yes, we do.
>>NOORY: That's
what's so exciting.
>>AGNEW: I'm excited
about meeting
with these private companies
that are really building things
like docking systems, habitats.
Bigelow has done
amazing things--
>>NOORY: These
floating hotels, right?
>>AGNEW: Inflatable spacecraft.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>AGNEW: And the
innovations that he's
made in multilayering
Kevlar and other materials
has created an almost
micro meteor-immune habitat
that we can put in space.
>>NOORY: From getting pelted.
>>AGNEW: Sure.
>>NOORY: Is he making
money on space yet?
>>AGNEW: I think so.
Yeah, they're all making money.
There's profit to be made.
Everything that's been
going up on the private side
has been making money.
And they're doing it
for less cost than what
the government did in the past.
>>NOORY: Are any private Chinese
companies doing things, Brooks?
Or is it all government?
>>AGNEW: I don't think
there's any such thing
as a private Chinese company.
I've been working with
them for a long, long time.
And many of the private
companies in China
all answer to the
Chinese government.
>>NOORY: What comes first with
our next move, the Space Force?
>>AGNEW: That is a very good
step in the right direction,
because what it shows
is official endorsement
that space actually exists.
I think we're
going to still have
to overcome the public stigma.
What in the world
are we going to space
if we have homeless
living on the streets?
>>NOORY: Which has
always been an argument.
>>AGNEW: It's always
been an argument.
The benefits far
outweigh the risks.
And in any business venture,
that's what you're looking for.
Yes, it might cost $100
million to pull it off.
But if you can make
$200 million doing it,
I'll do that three times a week.
>>NOORY: It's worth
it for somebody.
>>AGNEW: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: What's the
next big dramatic thing
that we will find out
about, in your opinion?
>>AGNEW: In space exploration?
Well, the testing
of the ion thrusters
I think has been
the most innovative.
Recently, there
was a contest where
ion thrusters were tested.
One of the thrusters was
not tested because they
didn't think it would work.
They finally were shamed into
hooking it up, and it worked.
And the remarkable thing
about this thruster
is it requires no fuel.
>>NOORY: No fuel?
>>AGNEW: No fuel.
The particles pop
into this dimension
from another dimension.
They're then charged
and pushed out the back,
which creates the thrust.
Nobody thought
this was possible.
But this is so innovative.
It's going to change the
way we travel in space.
>>NOORY: Brooks, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>AGNEW: My pleasure.
>>NOORY: How dramatic.
All these events that will
occur in our lifetime,
we'll begin to be able
to see them unfold.
And one day, we'll be
able to see man back
on the Moon, men
on Mars or women,
and it could save humanity.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]